README.md, before:

# CXDocs
Compound X rules displayed as web pages. Written in Python 2.7, served with Flask and bootstraped with bootswatch.

# set up
## Python module instalation
### On Ubuntu 16.04
1) $sudo apt-get install python
2) $sudo apt-get install build-essentials
2) $sudo apt-get install python-pip
4) $pip install --upgrade pip
1) $git clone https://github.com/bleehu/CXDocs.git
2) $sudo pip install flask
3) $sudo pip install pipenv
4) $pipenv install -r travis/requirements.txt

### On Windows
1) Install Python https://www.python.org/
2) Add Python and Python Scripts to Path https://stackoverflow.com/questions/21372637/installing-python-2-7-on-windows-8
3) Use pip to install flask and psycopg2 (it was added to command prompt with python scripts)
4) resolve local host and open port 5000 ???

### Helpful hints on windows
1) Use the windows Command Prompt
2) cd is change directory, dir is list contents of a directory
3) use cd /d G:\ to change to g drive if need be


to test navigate to the root directory and, use:

`$export FLASK_APP=sever/app.py` or on Windows: `$set FLASK_APP=server/app.py`

`$export FLASK_ENV=development` or on Windows: `$set FLASK_ENV=development`

`$flask run` will start the application. 

In order to use the database to do things like login, you'll also need to set
the [auth] config settings. See the /config/Readme.md for more info. You'll also
need to set `$export FLASK_PASS=blah` and `$export FLASK_USER=blah`, but instead
of "blah", substitute the actual username and password for logging into the auth
server.

then in a web browser, go to localhost:5000/levelup

For sharing dev over LAN (for one house), use:

`$python start.py -i local.ip.goes.here`

to find your local ip address on linux, use ifconfig in a terminal.

to find your local ip address on windows, use ipconfig in bash.

For WWW use:

CXDocs is being tested on an AWS instance behind an NGinX SSL proxy. There are
still some improvements that should be made in order to keep it safe. Feel free
to contact bleehu@uw.edu for information about how to stand up your own public
instance of CX Docs.


## Setting up configs

Compound X comes with a handy little script for generating appropriate config
files that help it do things like save pictures for the monster bestiary, etc.
Generating a config is as easy as running

`$python generate_config.py`

That should write a file in /config/cxDocs.cfg which will have useful options
set which are detailed in /config/Readme.md

## Setting up postgres database for login, bestiary, and character creation

you will need Postgres 9.5.x or 10.x

### On Ubuntu 16.04

Postgres should be already installed. To check, try typing into the console:

`psql --version`

If it's not installed

`sudo apt-get install postgresql`

`sudo apt-get install postgresql-client-common`

and

`sudo apt-get install postgresql-client-9.5`

### On Windows

Windows doesn't come with postgres standard. It's almost like they didn't expect
you to run a webserver off of your office box.

To download Postgres, go here: https://www.postgresql.org/download/windows/

Not really sure how to set the database up after that, but we'll work on it!

Likely on Windows, you'll want to use the (PGAdmin III GUI)[https://www.pgadmin.org/download/]
to work with the database rather than the Command Line Interface that the penguins
using linux will use.

There should be documentation on how to use pgAdmin3 to restore a database
(in this direction.)[https://www.pgadmin.org/docs/pgadmin3/1.22/restore.html]
but most of our devs use linux, and we haven't figured out how to do this on
Windows for sure yet.

### To initialize the database (Linux/Ubuntu)

To start with, you'll need to add an entry to postgres's authentication config
file. It _usually_ lives at `/etc/postgresql/10/main/pg_hba.conf` but your version
number may vary. The file is always called `pg_hba.conf` though. You'll need
`sudo` to modify it. Read the comments in the file; they're brief and helpful,
and as they direct, add an entry at the bottom for each of the following.
```
local dbname yourusername ident
local template1 yourusername ident
local dbname searcher password
local dbname validator password
```

In our example, `searcher` is the name of the application account that looks
for characters and enemies for the bestiary and character editors. `validator`
is name of the account with special permissions that searches for user logins.

These usernames (except your kernel username) are configurable. You can change
them to whatever you'd like them to be. And you should! Standard logins are a
security vulnerability. See the cxDocs/config/readme.md for more information on
configurations.

Once you've modified the pg_hba.conf file, you'll need to restart postgres with the new configs.

`$ sudo service postgresql restart`

## To configure the db

Before CXDocs is able to log in, you will need to also create the appropriate
user on your particular database and declare it's password. Details on how to
do that here:

`https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/auth-methods.html#AUTH-PASSWORD`


We keep a backup database in the travis/ directory, but the secrets (such
as user's passwords) have been redacted. If you're doing a restore, you'll have
to remember the old passwords or ask for new ones.  If you're building the database
for your first time on your home machine, you may be tempted to just wipe their
accounts. Since the database contains relations between the users and the enemies
they've created, this will break the application. You're better off replacing the
redacted passwords with random ASCII garbage by modifying the .db file before
restore.

One last step before tell the database to go live, add this SQL command to the
bottom of the restore script to give your username access to all of the tables
in the backend.

`GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA public TO bleehu;`

Once you've done that, upload the new database using these commands:

`createdb databasename`

`psql -f databasename /travis/test.db`

There shouldn't be any errors. If you log into the database using
`psql databasename`
you should be able to run SQL queries to look at all of the information on the
database. For example, `\dt` should list the available tables.

## Install Sass and Compile into CSS

NOTE: You will only need to install Sass if you're going to make front-end style changes.
(Without Sass, you can still use Bootstrap classes and our classes in HTML, but you won't be able to manipulate them or make your own.
This also means you SHOULD NOT EDIT `styles.css`; it is a generated file, and your changes will be overwritten by Sass users.)

Go to [http://sass-lang.com/install](http://sass-lang.com/install) and install Sass for your system. Installing for the command line is recommended.

When you have Sass installed, you can run it to compile a CSS file.
The output should ALWAYS be to `server/static/styles.css` until further notice.
The file `server/assets/scss/index.scss` should always be the input file and the only input file, as it imports the rest of the .scss files.

As an example, here is the command for Linux:

`sass --watch server/assets/scss/index.scss server/static/styles.css`

Using a watch command is recommended so that changes to .scss files are automatically recompiled.

Even with the watch command, Flask won't update `styles.css` on the page, so you'll have to refresh and probably clear the cache too (CTRL + F5).

# What's in this Direcory and why is it here?

## Pipfile

The Pipfile helps pipenv track what version of python modules it needs to run
our application. It's also helpful for telling TravisCI what to install before
starting testing.

## Pipfile.lock

A [lock file](https://askubuntu.com/questions/530598/what-is-the-purpose-of-lock-file)
for your pipfile. It also holds security hashes to make sure that someone isn't
poisoning your python libraries.

## Readme.md

A markdown file that shows easy-to-read instructions for using and contributing
to CXDocs. Readme files are displayed on github direcory pages automatically,
and markedown readme files are prettier than text files. What you're reading
right now is the readme file.

## The generate_config.py script

A helpful little script that writes a valid config file for you. It makes
setting up a new instance of CXDocs much quicker.

## The Server directory

We put the code for the CXDocs web application in here.

## The Travis directory

We put the tests that travis runs in here. It is helpful for making sure what
we write doesn't break anything.

## The .travis.yml file

This hidden file tells TravisCI what to do with our repo in order to run its
tests.

# Documentation
We use a couple of different technologies in this project. You can find documentation on them here.
* Flask: http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.11/tutorial/
* Jinja: http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/dev/
* Compound X: https://github.com/trowl223/Compound_X/tree/master/play
* for style example, use: http://bootswatch.com/cyborg/
* Postgres: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/static/index.html

Commit message:

Add an error handling to the Readme
Now we tell you to update your Flask!

README.md, after:

# CXDocs
Compound X rules displayed as web pages. Written in Python 2.7, served with Flask and bootstraped with bootswatch.

# set up
## Python module instalation
### On Ubuntu 16.04
1) $sudo apt-get install python
2) $sudo apt-get install build-essentials
2) $sudo apt-get install python-pip
4) $pip install --upgrade pip
1) $git clone https://github.com/bleehu/CXDocs.git
2) $sudo pip install flask
3) $sudo pip install pipenv
4) $pipenv install -r travis/requirements.txt

### On Windows
1) Install Python https://www.python.org/
2) Add Python and Python Scripts to Path https://stackoverflow.com/questions/21372637/installing-python-2-7-on-windows-8
3) Use pip to install flask and psycopg2 (it was added to command prompt with python scripts)
4) resolve local host and open port 5000 ???

### Helpful hints on windows
1) Use the windows Command Prompt
2) cd is change directory, dir is list contents of a directory
3) use cd /d G:\ to change to g drive if need be


to test navigate to the root directory and, use:

`$export FLASK_APP=sever/app.py` or on Windows: `$set FLASK_APP=server/app.py`

`$export FLASK_ENV=development` or on Windows: `$set FLASK_ENV=development`

`$flask run` will start the application. 

At this stage, if you get an error along the lines of "Failed to find application 
in module "CX_Docs_Local.server.app".", it is possible that you need to update 
Flask, as factories were added in 1.0. You can check your flask version by 
opening a python terminal (`$python`), then `$import flask` and `$flask.__version__`. 
Use `$pip install --upgrade Flask` (outside the python terminal) to update. 

In order to use the database to do things like login, you'll also need to set
the [auth] config settings. See the /config/Readme.md for more info. You'll also
need to set `$export FLASK_PASS=blah` and `$export FLASK_USER=blah`, but instead
of "blah", substitute the actual username and password for logging into the auth
server.

then in a web browser, go to localhost:5000/levelup

For sharing dev over LAN (for one house), use:

`$python start.py -i local.ip.goes.here`

to find your local ip address on linux, use ifconfig in a terminal.

to find your local ip address on windows, use ipconfig in bash.

For WWW use:

CXDocs is being tested on an AWS instance behind an NGinX SSL proxy. There are
still some improvements that should be made in order to keep it safe. Feel free
to contact bleehu@uw.edu for information about how to stand up your own public
instance of CX Docs.


## Setting up configs

Compound X comes with a handy little script for generating appropriate config
files that help it do things like save pictures for the monster bestiary, etc.
Generating a config is as easy as running

`$python generate_config.py`

That should write a file in /config/cxDocs.cfg which will have useful options
set which are detailed in /config/Readme.md

## Setting up postgres database for login, bestiary, and character creation

you will need Postgres 9.5.x or 10.x

### On Ubuntu 16.04

Postgres should be already installed. To check, try typing into the console:

`psql --version`

If it's not installed

`sudo apt-get install postgresql`

`sudo apt-get install postgresql-client-common`

and

`sudo apt-get install postgresql-client-9.5`

### On Windows

Windows doesn't come with postgres standard. It's almost like they didn't expect
you to run a webserver off of your office box.

To download Postgres, go here: https://www.postgresql.org/download/windows/

Not really sure how to set the database up after that, but we'll work on it!

Likely on Windows, you'll want to use the (PGAdmin III GUI)[https://www.pgadmin.org/download/]
to work with the database rather than the Command Line Interface that the penguins
using linux will use.

There should be documentation on how to use pgAdmin3 to restore a database
(in this direction.)[https://www.pgadmin.org/docs/pgadmin3/1.22/restore.html]
but most of our devs use linux, and we haven't figured out how to do this on
Windows for sure yet.

### To initialize the database (Linux/Ubuntu)

To start with, you'll need to add an entry to postgres's authentication config
file. It _usually_ lives at `/etc/postgresql/10/main/pg_hba.conf` but your version
number may vary. The file is always called `pg_hba.conf` though. You'll need
`sudo` to modify it. Read the comments in the file; they're brief and helpful,
and as they direct, add an entry at the bottom for each of the following.
```
local dbname yourusername ident
local template1 yourusername ident
local dbname searcher password
local dbname validator password
```

In our example, `searcher` is the name of the application account that looks
for characters and enemies for the bestiary and character editors. `validator`
is name of the account with special permissions that searches for user logins.

These usernames (except your kernel username) are configurable. You can change
them to whatever you'd like them to be. And you should! Standard logins are a
security vulnerability. See the cxDocs/config/readme.md for more information on
configurations.

Once you've modified the pg_hba.conf file, you'll need to restart postgres with the new configs.

`$ sudo service postgresql restart`

## To configure the db

Before CXDocs is able to log in, you will need to also create the appropriate
user on your particular database and declare it's password. Details on how to
do that here:

`https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.5/static/auth-methods.html#AUTH-PASSWORD`


We keep a backup database in the travis/ directory, but the secrets (such
as user's passwords) have been redacted. If you're doing a restore, you'll have
to remember the old passwords or ask for new ones.  If you're building the database
for your first time on your home machine, you may be tempted to just wipe their
accounts. Since the database contains relations between the users and the enemies
they've created, this will break the application. You're better off replacing the
redacted passwords with random ASCII garbage by modifying the .db file before
restore.

One last step before tell the database to go live, add this SQL command to the
bottom of the restore script to give your username access to all of the tables
in the backend.

`GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA public TO bleehu;`

Once you've done that, upload the new database using these commands:

`createdb databasename`

`psql -f databasename /travis/test.db`

There shouldn't be any errors. If you log into the database using
`psql databasename`
you should be able to run SQL queries to look at all of the information on the
database. For example, `\dt` should list the available tables.

## Install Sass and Compile into CSS

NOTE: You will only need to install Sass if you're going to make front-end style changes.
(Without Sass, you can still use Bootstrap classes and our classes in HTML, but you won't be able to manipulate them or make your own.
This also means you SHOULD NOT EDIT `styles.css`; it is a generated file, and your changes will be overwritten by Sass users.)

Go to [http://sass-lang.com/install](http://sass-lang.com/install) and install Sass for your system. Installing for the command line is recommended.

When you have Sass installed, you can run it to compile a CSS file.
The output should ALWAYS be to `server/static/styles.css` until further notice.
The file `server/assets/scss/index.scss` should always be the input file and the only input file, as it imports the rest of the .scss files.

As an example, here is the command for Linux:

`sass --watch server/assets/scss/index.scss server/static/styles.css`

Using a watch command is recommended so that changes to .scss files are automatically recompiled.

Even with the watch command, Flask won't update `styles.css` on the page, so you'll have to refresh and probably clear the cache too (CTRL + F5).

# What's in this Direcory and why is it here?

## Pipfile

The Pipfile helps pipenv track what version of python modules it needs to run
our application. It's also helpful for telling TravisCI what to install before
starting testing.

## Pipfile.lock

A [lock file](https://askubuntu.com/questions/530598/what-is-the-purpose-of-lock-file)
for your pipfile. It also holds security hashes to make sure that someone isn't
poisoning your python libraries.

## Readme.md

A markdown file that shows easy-to-read instructions for using and contributing
to CXDocs. Readme files are displayed on github direcory pages automatically,
and markedown readme files are prettier than text files. What you're reading
right now is the readme file.

## The generate_config.py script

A helpful little script that writes a valid config file for you. It makes
setting up a new instance of CXDocs much quicker.

## The Server directory

We put the code for the CXDocs web application in here.

## The Travis directory

We put the tests that travis runs in here. It is helpful for making sure what
we write doesn't break anything.

## The .travis.yml file

This hidden file tells TravisCI what to do with our repo in order to run its
tests.

# Documentation
We use a couple of different technologies in this project. You can find documentation on them here.
* Flask: http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.11/tutorial/
* Jinja: http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/dev/
* Compound X: https://github.com/trowl223/Compound_X/tree/master/play
* for style example, use: http://bootswatch.com/cyborg/
* Postgres: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/static/index.html
