config/README.md, before:

# Config Files

Put helpful configurations here. To generate a new config file, run the python 2.7 script called "generate_config.py" in the main directory.

## Enemies Section

enemies_psql_db: The name of the database that contains the data about enemies for the bestiary. Default is mydb.

enemies_psql_user: The user that the application uses to get/update the enemy database. Default is searcher.

pics_file_path: the file path in which to store pictures uploaded to the server of monsters.

## Parser Section

races_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the 01_Races.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

classes_filepath: (optional)  absolute filepath to the 02_Classes.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

feats_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the 03_Feats.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

weapon_attachments_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the 04_00_WeaponAttachments.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

armor_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the 05_ArmourList.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

skills_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the 06_Skills.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

items_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the 07_Items.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

basic_rules_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the Basic Rules.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

Engineer_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the Engineer Processes.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

Medic_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the Medic Proceedures.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

Commit message:

added new Who's Here feature

config/README.md, after:

# Config Files

Put helpful configurations here. To generate a new config file, run the python 2.7 script called "generate_config.py" in the main directory.

## Enemies Section

enemies_psql_db: The name of the database that contains the data about enemies for the bestiary. Default is mydb.

enemies_psql_user: The user that the application uses to get/update the enemy database. Default is searcher.

pics_file_path: the file path in which to store pictures uploaded to the server of monsters.

## Parser Section

races_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the 01_Races.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

classes_filepath: (optional)  absolute filepath to the 02_Classes.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

feats_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the 03_Feats.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

weapon_attachments_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the 04_00_WeaponAttachments.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

armor_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the 05_ArmourList.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

skills_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the 06_Skills.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

items_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the 07_Items.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

basic_rules_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the Basic Rules.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

Engineer_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the Engineer Processes.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

Medic_filepath: (optional) absolute filepath to the Medic Procedures.txt plaintext document from the compound_x repo

## WhosHere Section

Seconds_away: Don't forget to capitalize the S! This is how many seconds the 'Who's Here' feature should wait before marking someone as being 'away'

Seconds_out: The number of seconds before the Who's Here function should forget someone had logged in.
